About the Mobile Church of Robotron at Toorcamp

The Church of Robotron is a post-apocalyptic training facility and religious indoctrination center which derives its mandate from Robotron:2084, a coin-operated video game released in 1982. While it has long existed in pieces, in temporary gatherings, and in fanatic rants imposed on unsuspecting unbelievers, all of its components were first put together at once when the Mobile Church of Robotron was created in 2012.

About Robotron

Designed by Eugene Jarvis and Larry DeMar, Robotron is perhaps the finest video game ever designed. It has simple but strategic action, with one screen, no scrolling, and reactive enemy behavior. It has innovative two-stick controls. And it has a prophetic backstory around which an epic yarn can be spun.

This backstory is essential to our project. Without it, the entire endeavor falls apart, but does the effort grow out of the story, or the story out of the effort? It probably doesn't matter. The tale is of the mutant savior, the nameless, genderless victim of a genetic engineering error which fortuitously enables the wielding of the anti-robot laser which fires in eight directions. This ability proves useful when the Robotrons, a robot species so advanced that man is inferior to his own creation, are guided by their infallable logic to slaughter the human race.

It's a story which can support an elaborate exegesis. It's powerful because it minimally illustrates an 8-bit videogame. There's a lot of space for the imagination to attach itself to. Within the game, humanity itself is represented by multiple copies of three identical archetypes, Mommy, Daddy, and Mikey, randomly wandering the wasteland without agency until the savior scoops them up or a robot puts them out of their misery, their only personality being their simply-rendered outfits and the cry they give out when they are trampled. The robot adversaries are more interesting, but devote their time to single-mindededly striving to kill the mutant and the humans. What is their motivation? What is anybody's motivation? The splash-screen words and the text printed on the cabinet contradict each other, which may confuse those few who actually read them, but this is an advantage, because it allows for interpretation. And this is only to be expected in any great cultural touchstone. The Iliad does not mention each time Achilles goes to the bathroom! In the future, great schisms may arise due to these differences.

About The Church of Robotron

Simply put, the Church of Robotron is the release for an obsession. We played Robotron at lunch and after work every day. We killed a lot of robots. We played it without wearing pants and dreamed of providing free Robotron to the people. To perform outreach during the development of an armored, networked, urine-safe public console, we devised an intermediate step, the Mobile Church of Robotron, a traveling installation.

The Church of Robotron serves three purposes: to test humanity and identify candidates for the role of the Mutant Savior, to know, praise, and spread the teachings of the Mutant Savior, and to indoctrinate and train humanity to fight the Robotrons by assuming the protagonism of the Mutant Savior.

About The Mobile Church of Robotron

The first installation of the Mobile Church of Robotron occupied an olive drab dome in a clearing. An A-frame sign and a blinking totem pole beckoned the curious towards the small entrance. Within the dome was an inviting, cozy space, if one could ignore the noise, sparks, blinding flashes, and greeters insisting that all must be tested.

Through a doorway to the side was the Humanist Science Reading Room. Booming video sermons looped on screens and projectors, which flickered in the smoky chamber; blinking lights synchronized to the amplified speech hammered the message home whether the viewer's eyes were opened or closed. A leaderboard displayed the high scores of the most promising candidates and cycled through their death faces, taken at the final moment of the game. Rugs, low chairs, and a literature rack provided a relatively habitable environment for education and reflection.

Straight ahead, a corridor led to the focus of the installation, the altar. This was a sturdy, drab wooden chest, reinforced with metal bands. A spotlight directly above lit the padded kneeler before it, instructing, if not inviting, the aspirant to assume the position.

Upon kneeling, the slowly dimming spotlight directed the candidate's attention to the twin eight-way joysticks mounted in a lit niche in the front of the altar, with the game monitor suspended by cables above it. Many chose to take a moment to light a devotional candle to join those added by previous attempters. In any case, the time for hesitation had passed.  The joysticks were now to be grasped, the start button pressed, and the testing begun.

Why We Test

Testing is the purpose of the installation. This message from the future to the past must be overheard; the robot menace must be resisted, because it is real, and it is us. And the message will not be heard unless it is experienced. Robotron:2084 is the vehicle with which we identify, train, and indoctrinate those who will join this struggle, and we accomplish this with an immersive and hazardous testing environment.

How We Test

To do this, we have prepared a series of real-world effects to antagonize the player in response to game events. Video game immersion is discussed these days as something that emerges from the more realistic environment of the first-person shooter, including three-dimensional perspective and high-resolution graphics, but this immersion is just as available in the two-dimensional, top-down, 8-bit universe of Robotron:2084. It is perhaps even more available, for it is provided by the player, by the believer. A motive is all that is required. Everything else is just a tool. We have our motive, and it is the truth; our church is the tool to help others understand the truth that they are already experiencing but are not yet aware of.

The effects build up gradually by virtue of the game events that trigger them. Fans blow wind into the player's face as the avatar moves. Lasers blind the player when enemies fire. A motorized flapper slaps the player's hand when a friendly human is killed. Smoke oozes out of pipes as waves are cleared.

My favorite effects, however, are the electrical shorts. High-voltage arcs and Jacob's ladders, driven by sketchily-grounded neon sign transformers, spark randomly in the player's field of vision, growing more and more frequent as the game progresses, flickering in a cheesy sci-fi horror movie pattern. They are dangerous in a familiar way, bright blue sparks that buzz and emit ozone, but they are safely out of reach. As this happens, simulated arcs flash near the player's hands - blue-white LEDs with a similar random flicker. We don't want to actually kill the candidates, but we do want to prepare them for the dangers of fighting the robot menace.

All of these effects were triggered off of the game itself, which was a Linux box running a modified version of MAME, a video game emulator. Using a debugger, we found the memory locations which were written to when interesting game events occured, such as the firing of a robot weapon or the death of the player or a human. These sent packets to our message bus, which sent text strings over USB to the Teensy and Arduino microcontrollers, driving the effects. Another controller drove a salvaged LED marquee, which alternated between inspirational messages and top leaderboard entries. This was driven  by another microcontroller after the manufacturer refused to send us their documentation.

About The Mobile Church of Robotron at Toorcamp

Toorcamp was a perfect environment for our mobile facility. It was modeled on European hacker camps, which are offshoots of the hacker conventions which occur worldwide. Hacker conventions themselves tend to be only vaguely similar to your average trade convention. While they still involve bringing practitioners of a craft together in a boring hotel environment to network, learn, and get shitfaced, hacker conventions tend to attract misfits with looser affiliations, people who do things, not just people who want to hear about what others have done. And there is usually a mix of law enforcement, the criminally minded, and creative anarchists in between, with none of the boundaries being very defined. Toorcamp took this out of a hotel, and put it in a campsite on the Washington coast. It was a mix of a convention, a mad scientist's workshop, a camp, and a rave. Being on the west coast, the closest thing that comes to mind is probably Burningman, which is unfortunate. There were burners there, sure, but I think we saw the best of them, the makers, the ones who wanted to teach and learn, and that's pretty much what everyone did, showing off their lasers, 3D printers, robots, welders, drones, surveillance kites, jammers, and fermenters. And, of course, getting shitfaced.

The Toorcamp organizers gave us a small grant and a location, but the most important thing they gave us was probably the deadline. We all met at Dorkbot, which means that we're hardware and software geeks and artists. But more importantly, we're all either engineers, bike messengers, or bike messenger engineers. Our day jobs consist of juggling projects, estimating how close we are to our objectives, and getting our efforts triaged by shifting priorities. Nobody really wanted to hold the clipboard when off the clock; I became the de-facto project manager because I'm the most anal-retentive.

Toorcamp was a great place to host the installation. They gave us a 20 foot dome, right next door to the main auditorium. Every morning we would pound some coffee, see the morning keynote, and walk to our dome. We'd fix the worst of the problems from the night before, and refill the literature rack and the fog spewer. We'd playtest a few games and futilely try to beat my high score while we were still sober, open the entrance, and go off to see talks and demos and people.

When the talks were done we'd crank the volume, turn on the high-voltage effects, and fire up the sermons. After sundown we'd mill outside and herd or swindle people inside to be tested, at one point diverting a truckfull who thought they were going to a dance party. When their games were over, debriefing and critiques were provided in front of the leaderboard in the reading room. We didn't coerce candidates into experiencing this, because it was a somewhat unhealthy environment, with the smoke and ozone and fumes, but everyone exiting without having picked up a pamphlet had a copy pressed into their hands and an earnest reminder of the importance of their participation for the future of humanity.

Parts broke down as the weekend went on. Most of the installation had been thrown together quickly on the first day, and the kludges didn't get any better as they were layered on top of each other. Bad decisions were compounded, but it didn't really matter, because we had a constant job of repairing anyway. It wasn't any healthier for electronics than it was for humans to be in the dome. On the third night I wondered why the fog machine was just smoking through its vents instead of pushing fog through the conduits. I pried the duct tape off of the hose, yanked it off, and learned that it was full of half a gallon of condensed fog fluid when it dumped out on my feet and the overloaded power strip that I was standing next to.

There were a few robots there, which made us nervous. There were also lots of lasers. Whenever we found someone showing off a laser we asked them if it happened to be an anti-robot laser that fired in eight directions. "Could you point that at that robot and see what happens?" 

And among all of these hackers, makers, and partiers was our installation. The crowd parts to reveal another brave candidate, who walks up, kneels, and grasps the twin eight-ways. The game progresses and the player battles the destroyer of humanity in a humble and unfamiliar gaming position, with various real-world dangers enhancing the ordeal. The room becomes smoggier as the breathable air is replaced. Finally, the protagonist falls and the robots prevail; they always do in the end. At the moment of death, a blinding flash captures an image of the player, to be displayed on the leaderboard in the reading room. The spectators applaud, the player rises, and another approaches the altar to be tested.
