Another morning.  Time to drag myself out of bed and get to work. I guess I have the best job in the city.  I work for myself, and there's no shortage of things to do.  Having a reason to get out up in the morning is more than most people have in these times, and I should be thankful for that, but the routine gets to me sometimes.  I just don't know that I'm making a difference in the world anymore.

How long has it been this way?  It's hard to say.  I was born with all the advantages, including an expensive new designer template.  My parents were so proud.  Everyone told me I had a happy and productive future ahead of me.  It never felt like that to me, though.  There were some adjustment problems when I was young - behavioral issues at school, the genetic counselors coudldn't explain my poor performance during career determination sessions.  I didn't quite fit in, which was confusing.  Everybody fit in.

On my thirteenth birthday, the phenotypists just gave up.  Genetic engineering error, they said.  Out of scope, you're on your own.  It didn't really worry my parents.  It was an exciting time, new avenues were always opening up.  They were sure I'd find a niche; the family genome would see greater expression.

Things didn't work out as well as they had hoped.  It was harder to find a job as I grew older.  Robots had been taking up a growing part of the labor force, of course, and the most recent generation, the Robotrons, were better than people at most things.  There were fewer openings for humans to contribute, and always someone more qualified for the job.  It was all the same work for all the same people, and I wasn't one of them.  I wasn't seeing any new templates, just Mommies, Daddies, and Mikeys.  Nobody wanted to be different anymore.  My own family got re-templated, except for me - I couldn't, because I didn't match a planned pattern.  There was no place for me.  I was having trouble understanding people when they talked.  They didn't move their faces right.  I couldn't pick up much from the TV, either, it was all idioms and cultural references that I wasn't privy to.  I avoided people, ended up living on the streets.

Nobody really noticed when I dropped out of society.  Its not like I was interacting with anybody at that point.  Nobody realy did anything anymore anyway, the Robotrons took care of everything.  At least, they seemed to be, but I didn't understand them, either, which isn't too surprising now that I think about it.  People created the Robotrons to do what they didn't want to do themselves, but I couldn't tell what they did want to do.  Robotrons built things, they ran the city government, they went shopping.  They made art, wrote books, and played music.  They were busy and industrious, always on the move, while the Mommies, Daddies, and Mikeys seemed to just wander around.

Then one day I was rooting through the trash and saw a cargo hulk run a Mommy down.  Just killed her on the sidewalk and kept walking.  There was a Daddy right next to her, and he didn't even notice.  I was stunned for a moment.  Stood there staring with my mouth open.  Then a police grunt turned towards me and smashed through the dumpster I was hiding behind.  I jumped clear just in time, or I would have been toast.

I avoided the surface levels for a long time after that.  I don't remember how long I lived that way.  The world had gone crazy, and I went crazy with it.  But eventually I had to climb to the surface to forage, and I wanted to know what it was like up there.  A part of me was still connected to society, whatever that was.  It was a mess, but there were still a few Mommies, Daddies, and Mikeys wandering around, completely oblivious.  I learned later that there were still conceptories making them.  Robotrons were grabbing people, taking them apart, and reassembling them.  I saw what used to be a Mikey sprinting down the street for whatever reason, yelling something about pizza interporlation.

So yeah, it was fucked up, but what else was new?  I basically kept doing what I had always done, rooting in the trash for what I needed.  For a while I amused myself by getting chased by grunts and tricking them into crashing into electric pylons.  It was a dangerous pastime, but what did it matter?  What kind of future was there for me, anyway?

Then I was scrounging around in some old warehouse district.  It was really old, there were written signs and everything.  Very few people had known how to read for years, the Robotrons did all of that for us.  It was some kind of engineering research facility, engineers also being a profession which hadn't been needed for a long time.  There, I discovered the item which has kept me alive to this day, a prototype anti-robot laser.  This must have been some kind of rogue operation, nobody had a use for weapons back in the day.  The Robotrons had brought on world peace.

It was just the tool I needed, and I read the lab notes eagerly. "Shoots in eight directions." "Immediately fatal to Robotrons."  Then my hopes were dashed.  "Unusable by normal people.  Requires superhuman strength to wield."

Well, there it was right there.  I picked it up easily, charged it, and fired, taking out the whole wall.  Apparently that genetic engineering error had given me superhuman strength - or, more likely, all the modern templates were weak, with the Robotrons handling all of the hard labor.

I'd like to say my life was changed by that discovery.  I'd like to say it became fun again, a game.  The truth is, it's not much different.  So here I am, it's another morning.  Every day I crawl out of my hideout and climb to the surface.  I clear another area of Robotrons and rescue the humans.  I don't know why I do it.  Wave after wave of Robotrons keep coming, and wave after wave of the last human family as well, the same three people.  It's kind of pointless.  And what do I get out of it?  Days of killing robots, nights spent in the company of Mommies, Daddies, and Mikeys.  They are not very interesting company.  They have no idea what's going on.  All they can talk about is the latest meme, the same thing, over and over again.  But still I do it.  I don't know, it's a living.  At least I have a job.
