"Goodbye, Mommy."

"Goodbye, Mikey.  Have a good day at school."

I straighten my boy's red jumphoodie one last time and pat him on the head before sending him off.  Such a precocious boy this morning!  I watch him until he disappears into a sea of red, wandering randomly among his classmates towards the waiting school transports.

I wish I was young and wandering randomly among my classmates.

"Goodbye, darling."

I turn with a start.  I had been daydreaming again.  I'm getting old.

"Oh, my, you startled me.  Your lunch is -"

"Already got it, honey."  My husband pats his briefcase.  A self-reliant man, this one, but I straighten his tie for him anyway.  I keep a neat house.  I watch him amble towards his own handsome sea of blue blazers milling around the worker transports.

I do not wish I was middle-aged.  Being a Mikey is about growing and learning.  Being a Daddy is all about work.  Data mining all the livelong day.  Searching for entropy, the most precious commodity, the one thing the machines can't think up.  They take care of us, the Daddies take care of them, and the Mommies take care of the Daddies.

Being a Mommy, that's the good life.  I sigh happily on my doorstep.  It was a good family permutation this time.  Every evening, I stand on this doorstep as the transports pull up.  I see the waves of blue and red strolling down the sidewalk, until one man and one boy walk through this door.  It's a wonderful feeling, full of potential.

I asked my husband why he chose to walk up to my doorstep one night. Why not the house next door?  He didn't understand the question.  "It's the entropy, honey.  It's - it's where I went."  And it was a silly question.  What would the permutation be if we tried to influence it?  What kind of people would we be?

My thoughts are interrupted by a commotion down the lane, and I have my answer.  It's that thing again.  That fanatic.  That freak who is not the kind of people we are.  Not a Daddy, not a Mikey, not a Mommy.  An error.

I know what's going to happen.  I saw it three waves ago.  He destroys things, and slaps his weird religious propaganda everywhere.  Some kind of traditionalist dogma, wanting to go back to the old days - one hundred years ago exactly, for some reason.  1984.  A libertarian paradise, according to his cult.  I don't understand any of it.

This time, he's fashioned some kind of weapon, a construction laser or something.  I sigh again, this time in resignation.  A transport gets its motivator sliced off and crashes into a house.  Burning Mikeys run in all directions.  A beam bounces off a confused hulk, which plows through a crowd of Daddies, skidding in the gore.  A squad of grunts drone towards the terrorist and stumble into an electrode field.

A factory robotron starts generating enforcers and the battle quickly becomes pitched, but just as quickly, it's over.  The mutant looks at me, and then he's gone, off to spread his havoc somewhere else.

I survey my street, which is again quiet and peaceful.  Daddies and Mikeys stumble into transports.  I wonder if this morning's Mikey is among those charred bodies.  I hope not.  It was a good permutation.  I hope this evening's works out as well.
