Fucking grunt!

If it hadn't been for the existence of that particular grunt, none of this would have happened.

Sure, I'd seen the patrols before.  First in downtown, strutting their mass and letting the masses know their presence.  Then not too much later near the open-late markets in the sketchy part of town.  Who cares about that shit anyway?  Those pockets of bad food and crime and grime are shame anwyay...let them be patrolled, and let's clean it up, we all said.

Pretty soon they had station in most of the heavy traffic intersections, then the gated communities in the burbs.  It's fine, they're helping.

That enforcer that we noticed for the first time at the polls 3 years ago?  All good!  Pre-market votesway was down by 50%, and the entire squad only put down 64 voters in the 300 designations.  The riots didn't matter.  It was time to reel in those fringes anyway.  For unity.  For harmony.

And really, it wasn't that bad...until that stray fucker ran down Jes in my alley.

I had my briefcase packed and I was even halfway out the door when I had that awful moment of self-doubt.  Had I locked the back gate after dragging the recycling tanks to the alley?  I was certain that I had.  But maybe my memory was wrong.  Maybe I had been replaying the +0 entertainicom too intensely (in hopes of making bonus with my superior today).  Maybe I was just straight-up tired from the lack of sleep in the summer humidity (microclimate shroud be damned!).  It didn't matter.  I had to check.

So I went around through the side gate, back to the back gate.  I tugged hard down twice on the lock, and on the second time it fell long.  I should have known something was astray.

The next thing I felt was blood spraying the side of my face.

Blood soaking.

Blood sprayed, from the collar of Jes. 

Jes was our neighborhood's transient grardener and reclaimer.  We're sure she had a drug problem (all the reclaimers had drug problems), but she was an amazing gardener.  Because of that, the block tolerated the persistent reclaiming.  She had alley potatoes as bribe in mid summer...and by the time fall finally closed there were retail baskets of sidecorp gourds and squash.  Constantly changing, as with the seasons, as with our genetics.  Part of us, part of our irrelevant system, but not integrated.

The same way her head and neck were being disintegrated from her torso.  Now.

As the gate swings open, I quell my violent impulse with imagined order.  "These grunts aren't even supposed to be in here.".  After all, this was a peaceful garbage alley.  I peek my head out first to survey the grunt's position, and then I scan Jes.  There's no hope for her now.  Complete detachment.  Convulsions.  Puddle.

But that mechanical fucker is plodding on, glitched to shit, reflecting off of each fence and hulking side to side. There's a trickle of black smoke coming from the back torso, and hell, I think I'm seeing sparks from the fake mouth.

Now I'm actually pissed.  I'm running toward it and lodging my briefcase between the fake thigh and fake pelvis (a move I'd seen inner-city kids do with skate decks).  It lunges forward and then topples backward.  A blast of electrons surges out from the grunt and arcs like a 90-armed spider...then, splayed on its back, it begins the frenzy of limbs.  Fake arms and fake legs kicking and swinging as fast as the SDTM motors will allow.

And it's not going anywhere.

And so I find a cinderblock nearby and hurl it overhand, overhead at the grunt.  Its flail mode defense parrys the attack and the brick splits in two.  Fucking lucky!  There's containers of paint and oil being reclaimed nearby, and I manage to hurl these one after another at the twitching monster.  Its limb spasms knock the paint to the left and coat it in sparkle blue.  The oil canister is obliterated and the oil splashes violently into the fake face of the grunt, coating it slick black.  And there is a brief plasma fume and then it stops moving.  

I'm quickly opening its maintenance plate and tearing at random shit.  Seconds of adrenaline fear are turning into minutes of hyperventilation.  And now, there's a hulk at each end of the alley.  They're setting up electrodes, I can tell by the smell of ozone.

I bolt back through my back gate, slide through the side gate, and am sprinting down the sidewalk.  Other dads walking to the transit station glance and glare.  One of them is flattened by a hulk, exposing skull and white femur.  I try not to think, I let the emotion take over...and I'm sprinting now.

I feel like I'm out of scanning range and I dive into an unknown church.  I've got half my body under the pew, the rest won't fit.  My chest is heaving, I'm trying to be quiet.  I see red lights blinking through the stained glass, and I can hear the high pitched whine of dozens  of enforcers.  They're tearing the block apart.

2083...these are the good days.
